Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to talk about where we go from here or what's next.
So we just completed our to do application and it was a lot of fun to put together it.
Let us practice sewing the three big JavaScript environments together, the browser, the server and
the database.
But no example project is perfect.
So right now I want to talk about the three biggest things that this application is missing that we
still need to learn about.
Number one is organization number two is unique data per user and number three is attention to detail.
Now, don't worry, we're going to go through each of these one by one and explain what I mean.
Let's start with number one organization.
So our to do app project had zero organization.
It really only had two files, right?
Server, J.S. and browser.
Yes.
And our server JS file was a complete mess.
Just within this one file, we had our basic server set up.
We had our git and post routes, we had our HTML template, we had our database code.
And all of these things were just messily squished into this one unruly file.
Now, we were able to get away with this unorganized approach because our to do app was a very small
and simple application.
However, once an app has any sort of complexity to it, we really need to start organizing and splitting
each task or responsibility into its own separate file.
Otherwise, our project will turn into a mess of tangled up spaghetti code and we'll end up with something
that is almost impossible to maintain.
So we definitely still need to learn about code organization.
Let's move on to number two unique data per user.
So this is referring to the fact that in order to do application, we only had one user account, right?
We set up that basic password protection feature.
However, anyone who actually accesses this application is working with the same data.
It's almost like you're all sharing one account.
This was fine just for a bit of practice.
But in the real world, you'll want to let visitors register for their own account and you'll want to
let them create data that is unique to their account.
Right.
And then when they log in, they would only see items or data from their account.
So we absolutely still need to learn how to set up unique data per user.
All right.
And number three is attention to detail.
This could refer to many things, but primarily what I'm talking about is having complex logic based
on user input, meaning if the user type something in, we want to be able to decide if they typed too
little or too much or if we ask them for an email address.
Was it a valid email address?
When they choose a password, can we make sure that their password contains enough characters?
Can we send back the appropriate messages to the browser user so they can see what mistakes they made,
so on and so forth?
Basically what I mean by attention to detail is when you're developing an application, you need to
think of every possible thing that could go wrong and then you need to prepare for that.
Your application should be able to withstand that.
So my attention to detail, I mean, data validation, showing the user validation, error messages,
general security, so on and so forth.
OK, so those are the three biggest things that are to do.
App was missing.
You might be thinking to yourself, if the to do app was missing all of these important things, why
did we even bother building it at all?
Well, it's simple because now none of the following things are completely brand new are terrifying
to us.
So thanks to our to do app, we are now at least a little bit familiar with using the Web browser to
send requests to a server using Express to create a server that listens for incoming requests and performing
CRUD actions on a database.
So now we can learn about new technologies and concepts without overloading our brains with too many
new things at once.
Right, because these three things are no longer new to us, because when it comes to the three big
things that we still need to learn, what these three things have in common is that they can be incredibly
frustrating when you're still trying to learn the absolute basics of the browser, the server and a
database.
Right.
When you just want to see how the big JavaScript environments work together, the last thing you want
to be doing is creating thirty different separate file.
In the name of organization or when you just want to learn how to save user input data into a database,
the last thing you want to have to worry about is sessions and cookies or JSON Web tokens and hashing
passwords or when you just want to actually finish an application that the general public will never
actually visit.
The last thing you want to have to worry about is thinking of every possible way they could fill out
the form incorrectly or try to take advantage of your app.
Now, all of these things that I just mentioned are necessary, but can be very frustrating if you try
to learn them too early on.
So hopefully app no one prepared us with the basics.
So now we can avoid some of the common frustration of tackling these topics.
In other words, now that we are familiar with these things, we can now burden ourselves with these
things.
So back to the real question of this lesson.
What's next?
Well, the answer is app number two.
App number two is much more complex than our to do app.
And it does cover the three big things that our first app was missing.
So it's definitely organized.
We will learn how to split our code up into separate files so that each file only really has one main
responsibility.
App number two also has unique data per user.
So you see here you can register for a new account up here.
You can log in or out of an existing account.
Once you are logged in, you are presented with a unique feed of posts from the people that you follow
or the accounts that you follow, or you can visit your profile to see all of the posts that you have
created so far.
So that's unique data per user.
And finally, this application also has attention to detail.
For an example, back to user registration.
If you try to choose a username that is already in use, you'll see a validation message.
That username is already taken.
If you try to type in an email address that is not a valid email, you see another validation message.
So the idea is that anywhere on this website where we are receiving user input, we are going to validate
that input both from a commonsense standpoint and from a security standpoint.
All right.
So big picture, app number two absolutely includes those three big things that we still need to learn
about.
And in our very next lesson, we are going to begin work on this brand new project together.
This is going to be a lot of fun because this is where all of our preparation and practice really comes
together into a real world project.
Throughout the course of building this app together, I think you're going to have many different aha
moments.
So let's keep our momentum rolling.
I'm so excited to start this new project with you and I will see you in the next lesson.